Documentation
Introduction
Getting Started
Quickstart

Charging a Card
Making a Transfer
Integration Journey
Core Concepts
Environments
Authentication
Supported Request Headers
Encryption
Errors
Webhooks
Idempotency
Testing
Best Practices
Collections - inflow
Introduction

General Flow
Orchestrator Flow
Card Payments
Mobile Money
Pay With Bank Transfer
USSD
OPay
Payouts - Outflows
Introduction

General Transfer Flow
Transfer Orchestrator
Bank Account Transfers
Mobile Money Transfers
Wallet-to-Wallet
Payment Operations
Settlements
Refunds
Chargebacks
Reporting VAT
Use cases
Fintechs
Banks and OFIs
Travel and Hospitality
E-Commerce
Remittance
Telecommunications
API Workflows
Loan disbursements
Real-time FX conversion

Pay With Bank Transfer
Receive Bank transfer payments for NGN transactions.

Pay with bank transfer (PWBT) allows you to receive payments via bank transfers initiated by customers. Each payment is made into a virtual bank account linked to your settlement wallet.

You can generate either a dynamic or static virtual bank account to accept these payments:

Dynamic accounts are generated per transaction and expire after use. Ideal for one-time payments.
Static accounts are permanent and reusable, making them suitable for recurring payments.
PWBT is currently available for transactions in NGN (Nigerian Naira) and GHS (Ghanaian Cedi) only.


Requirements
Before integrating PWBT, complete the following steps:

Retrieve your API keys from the dashboard.
Notify your customers that they will need to complete the payment by initiating a transfer from their bank account.
How PWBT Works
When a customer selects PWBT as their payment method, a unique bank account is generated for that transaction. To complete the payment, the customer must:

Open their banking app or log in to internet banking.
Transfer the exact amount to the provided virtual account details.
Once the transfer is received, the payment is automatically verified and marked as successful. Both the customer and the merchant receive a confirmation.
The transaction is only successful once the customer initiates and completes the transfer to the provided virtual account.

Payment Flow
Follow these steps to accept payments via bank transfer:

Generate the virtual account details: Create a static or dynamic virtual bank account linked to the transaction.

Display the account details to the customer – Prompt the customer to transfer the specified amount to the generated account.

Listen for webhooks – Monitor the webhook events associated with the virtual account to detect successful transfers.

Verify the payment – Before fulfilling the order or service, confirm:

status is successful
amount matches the expected amount
customer_id is valid
id (transaction reference) is consistent with the original request
How to Create Virtual Accounts
You can receive payments through either a static or dynamic virtual account. Although both types look and feel the same to customers, they operate quite differently.


Static Virtual accounts
Static virtual accounts (also called permanent accounts) do not expire. Once created, they can be assigned to a single customer and reused for multiple transactions.

📘
Static accounts are valid for 1000 years. To create them specify the transaction amount as 0 in your request.

To create a static virtual account, collect the following customer information:

Customer name, preferably the first and last name.
Customer email.
The Customer's national identification number. For NGN virtual accounts, either of the following is required:
Bank Verification Number (BVN)
National Identification Number (NIN)

Use the Customer's personal Identification information (PII): the name and email to create a customer object. Store the customer_id from the response for the next step.

cURL

curl --location 'https://developersandbox-api.flutterwave.com/customers' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Accept: application/json' \
--header 'X-Idempotency-Key: {{YOUR_UNIQUE_INDEMPOTENCY_KEY}}' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer {{YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN}}' \
--data-raw '{
  "name": {
    "first": "Cornelius",
    "last": "Ashley-Osuzoka"
  },
  "email": "cornelius@devxpay.com"
}'
You'll get a response similar to this:

201 Created

{
    "status": "success",
    "message": "Customer created",
    "data": {
        "id": "cus_WWVaC0InrN",
        "email": "cornelius@devxpay.com",
        "name": {
            "first": "Cornelius",
            "last": "Ashley-Osuzoka"
        },
        "meta": {},
        "created_datetime": "2025-06-02T07:40:48.637002170Z"
    }
}

Use the customer_id along with other required details to create the virtual account using the create virtual account endpoint.